hi this is pressure Locker today's
puzzle is something you might see on a
technical interview question
imagine you have three people and 11
identical coins how many ways are there
to split 11 coins to 3 people only the
total number of coins to each person
matters so you might give 5 coins to
blue six coins to red and no coins to
green part two of the question how many
ways are there if each person has to get
at least one coin now five six zero
would not be solution because we have to
give green at least one coin so might
give green one red five and blue five
give these problems a try and when
you're ready keep watching the video for
the solutions we'll start out by solving
the number of ways you can split 11
coins to three people
we'll use a trick which is to place two
dividers between the coins we'll color
one divider blue and another divider red
the number of coins to the left of the
blue divider will be the number of coins
that blue gets the number of coins
between the dividers will be the number
of coins that red gets and the number of
coins to the right of the red divider
will be the number of coin that greens
gets so if I place the dividers in the
following positions there are three
coins to the left of the blue divider
that go to blue there are six coins in
between the divider that's how many red
gets and there are two coins to the
right of the red divider which go to
green we can change the positions of
these dividers if I move the blue
divider over now blue is getting five
coins red is getting four coins and
green is getting two coins I can change
the positions again if I move the blue
divider all the way over to the left now
there are no coins to the left of the
blue divider so blue is getting zero
coins in between the dividers is seven
coins that go to red and to the right of
the red divider is four coins that go to
green imagine I shift the dividers over
like this now blue is getting six coins
the two dividers are next to each other
there are no coins so that means red
gets no coins and green gets the
remaining five coins I'll let you figure
out how to
a division where Greene gets zero coins
but basically we can count the number of
ways to split 11 coins three identical
people by figuring out the number of
ways we can place these two dividers so
imagine we have 11 plus 2 which is 13
total slots we're going to place the
dividers and two of these slots and the
coins and the remaining slots so we want
to pick two of the spots for the
dividers and then we place the remaining
slots we fill them with the coins so we
can count the number of ways to split 11
coins to three people by counting the
number of ways that we can pick the two
dividers in 13 slots that's a number of
ways you can choose two elements from 13
which is a binomial coefficient 13
choose 2 which ends up being 78 so
that's part one answer is that you can
have 78 ways to split 11 coins 3 people
let's generalize this let's assume we
have n identical items that we want to
divide to our people as we did before we
basically want to use our minus one
divider we're going to need to draw out
n plus R minus 1 slots of which we're
going to pick our minus 1 divided its
the number of ways that we can choose R
minus 1 elements from n plus R minus 1
which will be n plus R minus 1 choose R
minus 1 which is equivalently n plus R
minus 1 choose n there's another way you
can think about the solution imagine the
algebraic equation x1 plus x2 all the
way up to X are our variables being
equal to N and we want to find the
number of non-negative integer solutions
this is exactly partitioning n into our
different spaces so this also gives you
the amount of distinct non-negative
integer solutions to this equation you
can interpret each term X I as the
amount that person I gets so now let's
proceed to the next question which is to
do the same split except each person has
to get at least one coin now we don't
actually have to start over
what we're going to do is a trick where
we start out by giving one coin to each
person so now we know each person has at
least one coins now we want to divide up
the remaining eight coins to the three
people and we can do that by dividing
the eight coins using our two divider
method so we want to divide in the same
exact way but we're just going to add
I'll just do one example to show you how
this works imagine I put the dividers
here there's one coin to the left of the
blue divider but blue already has one
coin so blue ends up with two coins now
in between the divider there are six
coins but then we're going to add the
one that red already has to the right of
the red dividers one coin we add on the
one that green already has to get to so
we can find all ways to split eleven
coins three people where each person
gets at least one by giving each person
one coin and then using our two divider
method on the eight coins remaining so
let's go through this solution we start
out by giving one coin to each so that
means they're 11 minus three which is
eight coins we then have to solve the
problem of dividing those eight coins
into three people so we're going to have
eight plus two which is ten slots of
which we're going to pick the two spots
for the divisors the dividers as we just
solved this will be the number of ways
to choose two elements from 10 which is
10 choose 2 which becomes 45 we can
generalize this let's imagine we want to
split n identical coins to our people so
that each person gets at least one coin
we start out by giving one coin to each
of the our people so there n minus our
coins remaining then we want to divide
the N minus our coins to our people
we've already solved this before use R
minus 1 divides
for a total of n minus 1 spots so this
becomes the number of ways to choose R
minus 1 elements from n minus 1 which is
n minus 1 choose R minus 1 algebraically
if you have the solution x1 plus x2 all
the way up to XR equaling X n equaling n
we now can solve for the number of
positive integer solutions using n minus
1 choose R minus 1 and in this case we
again interpret X I as the amount that
person I gets thanks for watching this
video please subscribe to my channel I
make videos on math and game theory you
can catch me on my blog mind your
decisions which you can follow on
Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
catch me on social media app brushed
I'll Walker and if you liked this video
please check out my books there are
links in the video description